Blog posts about making Spaces with Streamlit and Gradio (#158)
huggingface/blog: streamlit-spaces.md

        </div>
    </a>
</div>

## Showcase your Datasets and Models using Streamlit on Hugging Face Spaces

[Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/) allows you to visualize datasets and build demos of Machine Learning models in a neat way. In this blog post we will walk you through hosting models and datasets and serving your Streamlit applications in Hugging Face Spaces. 

## Building demos for your models

You can load any Hugging Face model and build cool UIs using Streamlit. In this particular example we will recreate ["Write with Transformer"](https://transformer.huggingface.co/doc/gpt2-large) together. It's an application that lets you write anything using transformers like GPT-2 and XLNet. 
 
![write-with-transformers](assets/29_streamlit-spaces/write-tr.png)

We will not dive deep into how the inference works. You only need to know that you need to specify some hyperparameter values for this particular application. Streamlit provides many [components](https://docs.streamlit.io/en/stable/api.html) for you to easily implement custom applications. We will use some of them to receive necessary hyperparameters inside the inference code.

> - We will take the sentences to be completed in a textbox, the ```.text_area``` component gives a nice area to input text. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ```.text_area``` component creates a nice area to input sentences to be completed.
```

> - The streamlit ```.sidebar``` method enables you to take your variables in a sidebar. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Streamlit ```.sidebar``` method enables you to accept variables in a sidebar. 
```

> - The ```slider``` is used to take continuous values, don't forget to give a step, otherwise the ```slider``` will treat them as integers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ```slider``` is used to take continuous values. Don't forget to give ```slider`` a step, otherwise it will treat the values as integers. 
```

sent = st.text_area("Text", default_value, height = 275)
max_length = st.sidebar.slider("Max Length", min_value = 10, max_value=30)
temperature = st.sidebar.slider("Temperature", value = 1.0, min_value = 0.0, max_value=1.0, step=0.05)
top_k = st.sidebar.slider("Top-k", min_value = 0, max_value=5, value = 0)
top_p = st.sidebar.slider("Top-p", min_value = 0.0, max_value=1.0, step = 0.05, value = 0.9)
num_return_sequences = st.sidebar.number_input('Number of Return Sequences', min_value=1, max_value=5, value=1, step=1)
```

The inference code returns the generated output, you can print the output using simple ```st.write```.
```st.write(generated_sequences[-1])```

Here's what our replicated version looks like.
![streamlit-rep](assets/29_streamlit-spaces/streamlit-rep.png)

You can checkout the full code [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/merve/write-with-transformer).

## Showcase your Datasets and Data Visualizations

> Streamlit provides many components to help you visualize datasets. It works seamlessly with 🤗 [datasets](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/), [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/index.html), and visualization libraries such as [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/stable/index.html), [seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/) and [bokeh](https://bokeh.org/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Streamlit provides many components to help you visualize datasets. It works seamlessly with 🤗 [Datasets](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/), [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/index.html), and visualization libraries such as [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/stable/index.html), [seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/) and [bokeh](https://bokeh.org/). 
```

> Let's start by loading a dataset. A new feature in `datasets`, called [streaming](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/dataset_streaming.html), helps you work with datasets without downloading all of them and loading into memory. This is extremely useful to work with very large datasets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start by loading a dataset. A new feature in `Datasets`, called [streaming](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/dataset_streaming.html), allows you to work immediately with very large datasets, eliminating the need to download all of the examples and load them into memory.
```

```
from datasets import load_dataset
import streamlit as st

dataset = load_dataset("merve/poetry", streaming=True)
df = pd.DataFrame.from_dict(dataset["train"])
```

>  If you have a structured data like mine you can simply use  ```st.dataframe(df) ``` to show your dataset. There are many streamlit components to plot data interactively, one is ```st.barchart() ```, which I used to visualize the most used words in the poem contents. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 If you have structured data like mine, you can simply use  ```st.dataframe(df) ``` to show your dataset. There are many Streamlit components to plot data interactively. One such component is ```st.barchart() ```, which I used to visualize the most used words in the poem contents. 
```

```
st.write("Most appearing words including stopwords")
st.bar_chart(words[0:50])
```

 If you'd like to use libraries like matplotlib, seaborn or bokeh, all you have to do is to put  ```st.pyplot() ``` at the end of your plotting script.
 
```
st.write("Number of poems for each author")
sns.catplot(x="author", data=df, kind="count", aspect = 4)
plt.xticks(rotation=90)
st.pyplot()
```

You can see the interactive bar chart, dataframe component and hosted matplotlib and seaborn visualizations below. You  can check out the code [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/merve/streamlit-dataset-demo).

![spaces-streamlit-dataset-demo](assets/29_streamlit-spaces/streamlit-dataset-vid.gif)

## Hosting your Projects in Hugging Face Spaces

> You can simply drag and drop your files as shown below. Note that you need to include your additional dependencies in the requirements.txt. Also note that the version of the streamlit you have on your local is the same, for seamless usage, refer to [Spaces API reference](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/spaces#reference). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can simply drag and drop your files as shown below. Note that you need to include your additional dependencies in the requirements.txt. Also note that the version of Streamlit you have on your local is the same. For seamless usage, refer to [Spaces API reference](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/spaces#reference). 
```

> ![spaces-streamlit](assets/29_streamlit-spaces/streamlit.gif)

Reviewer 2: Could this gif be sped up a bit?

Author: yeah I'm looking into it atm

Author: I did it yesterday

 You can load any Hugging Face model and build cool UIs using Streamlit. In this particular example we will recreate ["Write with Transformer"](https://transformer.huggingface.co/doc/gpt2-large) together, it's an application that lets you write anything using transformers like GPT-2 and XLNet. 
 
![write-with-transformers](assets/29_streamlit-spaces/write-tr.png)

We will not dive deep into how the inference takes place, you only need to know that you need to give couple of hyperparameter values to the model for this particular application. Streamlit provides many [components](https://docs.streamlit.io/en/stable/api.html) for you to easily implement custom applications. Here, we will use couple of them, to receive necessary hyperparameters inside the inference code.
We will take the sentences to be completed in a textbox, the ```.text_area``` component gives a nice area to input text. 
The streamlit ```.sidebar``` method enables you to take your variables in a sidebar. The ```slider``` is used to take continuous values, don't forget to give a step, otherwise the ```slider``` will treat them as integers. You can let the end-user input integer vaues with ```number_input``` .

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think we should `import streamlit as st` first :)

> sent = st.text_area("Text", default_value, height = 275)

Reviewer 2: what is default_value?

max_length = st.sidebar.slider("Max Length", min_value = 10, max_value=30)
temperature = st.sidebar.slider("Temperature", value = 1.0, min_value = 0.0, max_value=1.0, step=0.05)
top_k = st.sidebar.slider("Top-k", min_value = 0, max_value=5, value = 0)
top_p = st.sidebar.slider("Top-p", min_value = 0.0, max_value=1.0, step = 0.05, value = 0.9)
num_return_sequences = st.sidebar.number_input('Number of Return Sequences', min_value=1, max_value=5, value=1, step=1)

> ```

Reviewer 2: Please add new line

The inference code returns the generated output, you can print the output using simple ```st.write```.

> ```st.write(generated_sequences[-1])```

Reviewer 2: Please add new line above

Here's what our replicated version looks like.
![streamlit-rep](assets/29_streamlit-spaces/streamlit-rep.png)

You can checkout the full code [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/merve/write-with-transformer).

> ## Showcase your Datasets and Data Visualizations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Showcase your Datasets and Data Visualizations

```

> Streamlit provides many components to help you host your datasets and visualize them, it works seamlessly with hugging face [datasets](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/), [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/index.html), and  visualization libraries, like [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/stable/index.html), [seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/) and [bokeh](https://bokeh.org/). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Streamlit provides many components to help you visualize datasets. It works seamlessly with 🤗 [datasets](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/), [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/index.html), and visualization libraries such as [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/stable/index.html), [seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/) and [bokeh](https://bokeh.org/). 
```

> Let's start by loading the dataset. A new feature in datasets, called [streaming](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/dataset_streaming.html), helps you work with datasets without completely downloading them. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's start by loading a dataset. A new feature in `datasets`, called [streaming](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/dataset_streaming.html), helps you work with datasets without downloading all of them and loading into memory. This is extremely useful to work with very large datasets.
```

>  ```

Reviewer 2: Please add new line above. Same in the remaining ones :D
